feat: GDPO vs GRPO multi-reward example and collapse demo (#2681)
NVIDIA-NeMo/RL: docs/guides/grpo.md

```
Note that this method only has an effect when training involve more than one reward function.

#### Comparing GDPO against a GRPO baseline

> The clearest way to see GDPO's effect is a matched comparison: identical config, with the advantage estimator as the only difference. `examples/configs/grpo_math_1B_multireward.yaml` is exactly that control — it inherits `gdpo_math_1B.yaml` and only flips `adv_estimator.name` back to `grpo`, so both runs use the same multi-reward environment.

Reviewer: [`docs/guides/grpo.md:567`](https://github.com/NVIDIA-NeMo/RL/blob/11a3268e3d561fa34b27821198c05362e52efd49/docs/guides/grpo.md#L567)

Same wording nit as in the config header: the control also changes the checkpoint dir and logger run names, so "only flips `adv_estimator.name`" slightly overstates it.

```suggestion
The clearest way to see GDPO's effect is a matched comparison: identical config, with the advantage estimator as the only training-relevant difference. `examples/configs/grpo_math_1B_multireward.yaml` is exactly that control — it inherits `gdpo_math_1B.yaml` and flips `adv_estimator.name` back to `grpo` (plus a separate checkpoint dir and logger run names), so both runs use the same multi-reward environment.
```

Reviewer: fixed in 405339e1b5e3c7196775d12349daad4e1879ea1a

```
# GDPO
uv run examples/run_grpo.py --config examples/configs/gdpo_math_1B.yaml
# GRPO control on the same multi-reward env
uv run examples/run_grpo.py --config examples/configs/grpo_math_1B_multireward.yaml
```

Before committing to a full run, you can reproduce the advantage-collapse mechanism on CPU in a few seconds:

```

> uv run examples/run_gdpo_grpo_advantage_demo.py

Reviewer: do you think we could simply screenshot the GDPO paper's examples here instead of adding another script to the examples folder? i am worried this script will bit rot

```

Two responses with the same total reward but different composition (e.g. `(1, 0)` vs. `(0, 1)`) receive an identical advantage under GRPO but distinct advantages under GDPO.

#### What to measure

> The headline metric is per-reward convergence, not just aggregate reward. Log each component (`reward1`, `reward2`, …) separately and compare the GDPO and GRPO curves:

Reviewer: [`docs/guides/grpo.md:586`](https://github.com/NVIDIA-NeMo/RL/blob/11a3268e3d561fa34b27821198c05362e52efd49/docs/guides/grpo.md#L586)

Two things on this line:

1. **Per-component logging isn't built in.** The framework only logs `total_reward` aggregates ([rollouts.py:1036-1039](https://github.com/NVIDIA-NeMo/RL/blob/11a3268e3d561fa34b27821198c05362e52efd49/nemo_rl/experience/rollouts.py#L1036)), and the env `accuracy` metric reads only the correctness component ([math_environment.py:387-388 on latest main](https://github.com/NVIDIA-NeMo/RL/blob/ec46ab3fb1d69a7a3199438fdd446d1f83957ba3/nemo_rl/environments/math_environment.py#L387)) — no per-component reward metric is emitted anywhere (checked on this PR, on #2680's latest revision, and on latest `main`). So "Log each component" needs a note that users must add that logging themselves.

2. **The `reward1`, `reward2`, ... naming is stale on latest `main`.** Merged #2597 (022ae4e36) renamed the component batch keys to `reward/<name>` (e.g. `reward/correctness`, `reward/format`, `reward/integer` — [math_environment.py:238-240](https://github.com/NVIDIA-NeMo/RL/blob/ec46ab3fb1d69a7a3199438fdd446d1f83957ba3/nemo_rl/environments/math_environment.py#L238)), and [`get_gdpo_reward_component_keys`](https://github.com/NVIDIA-NeMo/RL/blob/ec46ab3fb1d69a7a3199438fdd446d1f83957ba3/nemo_rl/algorithms/utils.py#L34) now matches `startswith("reward/")`. Worth folding into the planned post-#2680 rebase (see also the companion comment on the demo script, which is affected functionally).

**Action:** reword to make the logging gap explicit and use the post-#2597 naming:

```suggestion
The headline metric is per-reward convergence, not just aggregate reward. NeMo-RL does not log per-component rewards out of the box (only `total_reward` aggregates are logged), but the components are available as `reward/<name>` keys (e.g. `reward/correctness`) in the rollout batch — add your own logging for them and compare the GDPO and GRPO curves:
```

Reviewer: fixed in 405339e1b5e3c7196775d12349daad4e1879ea1a
